# Kill Chain

## Read and summarize

### Hutchins

- there are three types of intrusion indicators. Atomic which cannot be broken into smaller pieces, computed which are derived from the data that was involved in an incident and Behavioral that are collections of atomic and computed indicators.
- The intrusion kill chain is used as a actionable intelligence model for measuring performance and effectiveness of intrusion actions aswell as planning for investments roadmaps to rectify capability gaps.
- In 2009 PDF files were weaponized for using 8-bit keys in exploit shellcode.
- kill chain shows asymmetry with aggressor and defender.

## Tactics, tools and procedures

### Tactic

Known as the reason performing an action. Tactical goal for why adversary wants to do the act like wanting to get credential access.

### Technique

How adversary is able to achieve is tactical goal is known as a technique. For example injecting website for higher access.

### Subtechnique

Specific description of how technique is used to accomplish tactical goal, like injecting sql query via input data that grants higher access privilege.

### procedure

describes in-the-wild use of techniques that can include several subtechniques within it. Example, in data manipulation adversary has injected transanctions into compromised networks that mimic legitimate behavior to siphon off incremental amounts of money.


## Attack story

Attackers tactic was to access information for new movie releases and leak them to public, He used Trojan malware Calisto to enable remote login, screen sharing, add permissions, add remote login and add its own account. Attempt is assumed to be injected trough a bat file within an email sended to one of the emplyees work email.

Suspicious behavior of the compromised computer was caught within outgoing Http requests and the pc was isolated for analysis. The Calisto trojan was able to be gotten rid of but because there was no idea how long it had been inside the system, tons of work hours were used in checking the entire cloud system to make sure there wasnt any unauthorized changes.

Information leaks have not been confirmed and as a precaution for future email threats, used email server was modified to block or remove emails that had commonly used files for threats like .vbs, .bat, .exe and .scr.


# References

MITRE. 2024. Data Manipulation. Readable: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1565/ Read: 26.1.2025.

MITRE. S.A. Frequently Asked Questiions. Readable: https://attack.mitre.org/resources/faq/ Read: 26.1.2025.

Wayback machine. 2018. OSX.Calisto. Readable: https://web.archive.org/web/20190111082249/https://www.symantec.com/security-center/writeup/2018-073014-2512-99?om_rssid=sr-latestthreats30days Read: 16.1.2025.

Karvinen. T. 2025. Information-Security. Readable: https://terokarvinen.com/information-security/ Read: 26.1.2025.
